Participants:
We collected data from [FORTHCOMING] subjects drawn from the Psychology department's participant pool at University of Massachusetts Amherst. Subjects received course credit for their participation. Subjects ranged in age from [FORTHCOMING] to [FORTHCOMING] years (Mean = [FORTHCOMING], Standard deviation = [FORTHCOMING]). The sample consisted of [FORTHCOMING] males and [FORTHCOMING] females ([FORTHCOMING] subjects opted out of providing this information). The study was approved by the university's IRB and subjects provided written informed consent before participating.

Stimuli:
In the task, subjects had to indicate the orientation of the darker set of stripes in a grid made by mixing together two sets of stripes rotated 90 degrees from each other. The grid consisted of four grayscale intensities. Grayscale intensities were computed based on the illuminance values obtained for the computer monitors. Two of the intensities specified the light and dark segments for the stripes of the target orientation, while the other two intensities specified the light and dark segments of the foil orientation. The values of the intensities were specified via separate Michelson contrasts for the foil and target orientations, with the necessary requirement that the target contrast was equal to or higher than the foil. For all subjects, the value of the foil contrast was fixed to 0.2, while the value of the target contrast was estimated via a staircase procedure to result in 80% accuracy on average.

The grid was contained within the inner part of an annulus. The prime stimuli (consiting of a single set of stripes formed by setting the foil contrast to 0 and target contrast to 1) were presented within the ring of the annulus. The width of the stripes for the prime were wider and the the phase of the stripes (i.e., where they originate) was jittered, ensuring that subjects could not easily match up the orientations of the prime and target stimuli.

Design:
In the experiment, a single priming trial consisted of the following sequence of stimuli: 1) a fixation dot, 2) a placeholder stimulus, 3) a prime, 4) the target grid and a backward mask for the prime, 5) a shifting static display masking the target and indicating that a response should be made, and finally 6) accuracy feedback for the trial. The fixation dot was shown in the center of the screen for 132 to 383 ms, with the timing varying such that the total duration of a trial (excluding the time it took a subject to respond) always equaled 800 ms. The placeholder stimulus consisted of a set of high contrast horizontal stripes, shown for 400 ms.  The prime stimulus was then shown for either 17, 34, 67, 134, or 268 ms (i.e., for 2, 5, 10, 20, or 40 frames). The subsequent target stimulus was shown for 84 ms. Simultaneously, the prime was backward masked via a series of dots shown in the ring of the annulus. Finally, the target stimulus was masked with shifting static, which also served as the indication to the subject to render a response. The mask for the prime remained up as well.  Subjects pressed the 'j' key to indicate that the darker stripes were orientated to the right, and the 'k' key to indicate that the darker stripes were orientated to the left. To aid subjects in remembering the key assignments, a diagram of the assigned orientation was shown above each key. Following a response, subjects were given feedback on their accuracy with the phrases 'Correct!' or 'Error!' for 500 ms. If subjects failed to respond within 5 seconds, a missing response was recorded, the subjects were informed that they had made an error, and the experiment proceeded to the next trial.

Procedure:
After the experimenter read the on-screen instructions for the task out loud, each participant completed a set of training phases to ensure he or she understood the task. During training, subjects only saw the 'neither primed' condition (i.e., vertical stripes) for 150 ms. First, subjects completed a set of 5 trials, with input from the experimenter, where the target had higher contrast (5 times higher than the foil contrast) and a longer duration flash (400 ms). Next, subjects completed up to 80 trials with a similar high contrast target, albeit one shown at the regular speed (84 ms). Subjects had to 10 trials correct in a row before they could progress onto the next phase. We terminated the experiment early for subjects who failed to meet this criteria. Finally, subjects completed 100 trials that got progressively harder after intervals of 20 trials each. Difficulty was manipulated by adjusting the contrast of the target (initially 2 times higher than the foil, then 1.5 times, then 1.25 times, and finally only 1.125 times higher).

Following the training phases, subjects completed a calibration phase to estimate the contrast value for the target needed to produce an average accuracy performance of 80% for each subject. During the calibration phase, only the 'neither primed' condition was used. On each trial, the duration of the prime was set randomly to either 17, 34, 67, 134, or 268 ms. For the first trial, the target contrast was set to be 2 times higher than the foil contrast. On each subsequent trial, the target contrast was adjusted based on a staircase algorithm. A subject's accuracy performance was estimated from a moving average over an interval of up to 10 trials. If accuracy was above or below a 50% confidence interval (using a binomial distribution) based on an accuracy of 80%, the target contrast was lowered or raised, respectively. Over blocks of 10 trials, the increment added to or subtracted from the target contrast was periodically decreased.

Following calibration trials, subjects completed 6 blocks of priming trials, with 75 trials per block. The order of trials (i.e., based on prime type, duration, and the orientation of the target) was randomized for each subject. At the end of each block of trials, the staircase algorithm was applied (using an estimate of accuracy determined over all 75 trials) to generate a new target contrast level for the subsequent block.

